.Dd June 18, 2025
.Dt WIFIBOX-ALPINE 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wifibox-alpine
.Nd wifibox based on Alpine Linux
.Sh INTRODUCTION
The implementation of the
.Xr wifibox 8
embedded wireless router is based on the use of a Linux-based guest
operating system which can communicate with the host's wireless
network card on behalf of the host.
In order to meet the requirements of this setup, this has to be a
system with a low resource footprint and easy to manage.
.Pp
This solution is derived from Alpine Linux, which is an actively
maintained, security-oriented, lightweight distribution, based on
.Sy musl libc
and
.Sy busybox .
For more information and introduction to the tools that are going to
be used in the sections below, please visit the following sites:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Alpine Linux:
.ft B
https://alpinelinux.org/
.ft R
.It
BusyBox:
.ft B
https://busybox.net/
.ft R
.It
OpenRC:
.ft B
http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/base/openrc/
.ft R
.It
iptables:
.ft B
https://www.netfilter.org/projects/iptables/index.html
.ft R
.It
dhcpcd:
.ft B
https://roy.marples.name/projects/dhcpcd
.ft R
.It
radvd:
.ft B
https://radvd.litech.org/
.ft R
.It
iw:
.ft B
https://wireless.wiki.kernel.org/en/users/documentation/iw
.ft R
.It
wpa_supplicant:
.ft B
https://w1.fi/wpa_supplicant/
.ft R
.It
hostapd:
.ft B
https://w1.fi/hostapd/
.ft R
.It
mDNSResponder:
.ft B
https://opensource.apple.com/source/mDNSResponder/
.ft R
.It
socat:
.ft B
http://www.dest-unreach.org/socat/
.ft R
.It
tcpdump:
.ft B
https://www.tcpdump.org/
.ft R
.El
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION
The guest is created with a
.Sy root
user, which is associated with a blank password.
This can only be used to login to the guest via the
.Cm console
command of
.Xr wifibox 8 ,
no other services are configured for remote access.
.Pp
Although the
.Sy root
user possesses unlimited access to every resource inside the guest,
files might not be changed in every case.
That is because the operating system is built in a way that it does
not require any write access to the contents of the root file system.
In addition to that, all the contents of the disk image is stored in a
compressed format via SquashFS and uncompressed to memory only on
demand.
Everything that needs to be modified during the guest's run time is
stored on dedicated file systems that are either memory-backed or
shared with the host.
.Pp
The image can host either
.Sy wpa_supplicant
for connecting to wireless networks, or
.Sy hostapd
for creating wireless access points, depending how it was built.
In addition to that, a combination of
.Sy dhcpcd
and
.Sy radvd
could be used to support IPv6 traffic,
.Sy mDNSResponder
could be deployed to handle multicast DNS requests, and
.Sy forwarding
could be configured to pass traffic between originally isolated inner
and outer networks, such as UDP broadcasts.
For packet analysis,
.Sy tcpdump
is provided as an optional component.
Each application-specific detail is going to be included below.
.Sh SHARED CONFIGURATION FILES
For ease of management, the host shares configuration files with the
services that are responsible for implementing the domain logic.
On the host, all the files are stored under
.Pa %%LOCALBASE%%/etc/wifibox
with additional subdirectories inside.
.Pp
The
.Pa appliance
subdirectory holds the generic configuration files.
On the guest, they are visible on the
.Pa /media/etc
directory where the
.Sy config
9P (VirtFS) share is mounted in read-only mode.
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Sy forwarding
works with the
.Pa appliance/forwarding.conf
file.
It uses the syntax of the
.Sy socat
address specifications but it is limited to work with UDP and TCP
ports only.
Note that this is an optional component, and its presence depends on
the configuration of the guest image.
The respective configuration file on the guest is
.Pa /media/etc/forwarding.conf ,
which is used directly from this location.
.It
.Sy hostname
sets the hostname on boot from the
.Pa applicance/hostname
file.
This is the name that is going to be visible for others on the local
network.
Changing the hostname requires updating this file and restarting the
guest.
The configuration file shows up on the guest as
.Pa /media/etc/hostname ,
which is mapped to
.Pa /etc/hostname ,
and used verbatim.
.It
.Sy ifup
and
.Sy ifdown
work with the
.Pa appliance/interfaces.conf
file to associate the internal network interfaces with IP addresses:
.Sy wlan0
is the wireless device and
.Sy eth0
is the virtual Ethernet device towards the host which are both
configured according to the contents of the configuration file.
On the guest, this is
.Pa /media/etc/interfaces.conf ,
which is directly included as part of
.Pa /etc/network/interfaces .
.It
.Sy iptables
works with the
.Pa appliance/iptables
file and it is responsible for moving network packets (Network Address
Translation, NAT) between the
.Sy eth0
and
.Sy wlan0
interfaces.
The configuration file describes the flow of the network packets
through the interfaces.
Using
.Pa /media/etc/iptables
directly, it is loaded once at launching the respective service,
usually on boot, and cannot be modified from the guest.
.It
.Sy ip6tables
is the IPv6-enabled version of
.Sy iptables
which uses the
.Pa appliance/ip6tables
configuration file.
Its purpose is exactly the same as for its sibling, it bridges the
.Sy eth0
and
.Sy wlan0
networking interfaces with the help of NAT.
On the guest,
.Pa /media/etc/ip6tables
is used directly in this case.
.It
.Sy mDNSResponder
works with the
.Pa appliance/mdnsd-services.conf
file and it can handle multicast DNS query packets on UDP port 5353.
The advertised services can be described by its configuration file so
that others on the network could see them.
Note that this is optional component, and its presence depends on the
configuration options of the guest image.
On the guest, the
.Pa /media/etc/mdnsd-services.conf
configuration file is used directly.
.It
.Sy udhcpd
works with the
.Pa appliance/udhcpd.conf
file and it can implement a DHCP server for either
.Sy eth0
or
.Sy wlan0
so that it can hand out IP addresses in a given range for the host
.Sy ( wpa_supplicant )
or the clients on the wireless network
.Sy ( hostapd ) ,
and can set itself the default gateway for forwarding the network
traffic.
It also manages the distribution of information about the name
servers, in cooperation with
.Sy udhcpc
(DHCP client) when required.
This is utilized only when dynamic IP addresses are in use.
On the guest, the configuration file becomes
.Pa /media/etc/udhcpd.conf ,
which is used to generate
.Pa /etc/udhcpd.conf
that
.Sy udhcpd
will eventually read.
.It
.Sy dhcpcd
is an alternative to
.Sy udhcpc
and it is used only when IPv6 is optionally configured.
In that case, it takes over the role of
.Sy udhcpc
and manages both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
It works with the
.Pa appliance/dhcpcd.conf
file which often holds only a handful of overrides for the default
options because otherwise they work well.
.Sy dhcpcd
is pre-configured to automatically keep
.Sy udhcpd
updated about name servers and it is employed only for
.Sy wpa_supplicant .
The corresponding file on the guest is
.Pa /media/etc/dhcpcd.conf ,
which is mapped to
.Pa /etc/dhcpcd.conf .
.It
.Sy radvd
works with the
.Pa appliance/radvd.conf
configuration file and this is the IPv6 Routing Advertisement Daemon
that implements the routing functionality in case IPv6 is enabled.
It sends Router Advertisement messages, specified by RFC 2461, towards
the host
.Sy ( wpa_supplicant )
or the clients
.Sy ( hostapd ) ,
and sending a Router Solicitation message when requested.
These messages are required for IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration
(SLAAC).
The corresponding configuration file on the guest is
.Pa /media/etc/radvd.conf ,
which is mapped to
.Pa /etc/radvd.conf .
.It
.Sy uds_passthru
is an optional service for managing the forwarding of control sockets
created for either
.Sy wpa_supplicant
or
.Sy hostapd .
It works with the
.Pa appliance/uds_passthru.conf
file, which is optional, and when it is present, it automatically
implies that the service is enabled.
The contents describe what sockets should be exposed over configured
TCP ports with the help of
.Sy socat ,
which a heavily stripped-down version of the original tool to minimize
the related security risks.
On the guest, the path of the configuration file is
.Pa /media/etc/uds_passthru.conf ,
from where it is used.
.El
.Pp
Depending on the configuration, either the
.Pa wpa_supplicant
or
.Pa hostapd
subdirectory holds the configuration files that are used by either
.Sy wpa_supplicant
or
.Sy hostapd ,
respectively.
On the guest, they are published under the paths
.Pa /etc/wpa_supplicant
and
.Pa /etc/hostapd
where the
.Sy app_config
9P (VirtFS) share is mounted as read-write.
This will let
.Sy wpa_supplicant
or
.Sy hostapd
change the contents when instructed to do so from the host through the
forwarded control sockets and permitted by the configuration.
.Pp
.Sy wpa_supplicant
works with the
.Pa wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf
file, while
.Sy hostapd
works with the
.Pa hostapd/hostapd.conf
file.
These are the same tools that are used in the
.Fx
base system for the same purpose, and their Linux version is utilized
here to make it possible to reuse the configuration files of the same
format from the host.
.Pp
The variable data files under the guest's
.Pa /var
directory are shared with the host by mounting the
.Sy var
9P (VirtFS) share there.
This includes streaming out all the logs under the
.Pa /var/log
directory, such as
.Pa /var/log/dmesg
or
.Pa /var/log/messages
so that the internal state of the guest can be tracked by accessing
these files on the host per the configuration of
.Sy wifibox .
The contents of the
.Pa /var/run
directory will not be visible on the host, as it is stored only in the
memory.
.Sh INTERNALS
Further components of the guest that are not directly configurable or
visible to the outside:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Version 6.12 (LTS) of the Linux kernel and its wireless drivers are
used to communicate with exposed hardware.
It does not always work with the latest ones, see the section on
supported hardware for the exact details.
Alternatively, it is possible to configure the image to have Linux
6.13 (stable) which could be suitable for testing experimental
features and drivers.
.It
.Sy busybox
is a combination of tiny versions of the common UNIX utilities,
including the
.Sy ash
shell itself, shipped in a single small executable.
It provides the execution environment for all the scripts and
services.
All the irrelevant modules were removed for security hardening.
.It
The base layout of the Alpine system is stripped down to the bare
minimum, and for example, the guest does not have the
.Sy apk
package manager installed since it would not be able to work.
Instead, the disk image itself should be constructed in a way that it
includes all the needed applications.
.El
.Sh STARTING, STOPPING, AND RESTARTING SERVICES
Every service running on the guest can be managed by the
.Sy rc-service
(locate and run OpenRC service) command, which is going to be used in
this section.
The list of actively managed services can be learned as follows.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rc-service --list
.Ed
.Pp
The status of a specific service can be queried by the
.Cm status
command.
For example, the
.Sy wpa_supplicant
tool has its own associated service and it can be checked by the following
command.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rc-service wpa_supplicant status
.Ed
.Pp
Similarly to this, the
.Cm start ,
.Cm stop ,
and
.Cm restart
commands are available as well to start, stop, or restart the given
service, respectively.
In the example below, consider re-initializing all the network
interfaces by restarting the
.Sy networking
service.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rc-service networking restart
.Ed
.Pp
These commands can help with troubleshooting and restoring the
respective services in case of failures.
.Sh CONFIGURATION OF NETWORK PACKET FILTERING
The network packet filtering rules are managed by the
.Sy iptables
and
.Sy ip6tables
services, which need to be restarted so that the changes in either the
.Pa iptables
or the
.Pa ip6tables
file can take effect.
For example, in case of
.Sy iptables :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rc-service iptables restart
.Ed
.Pp
The active set of rules can be queried by the following command.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iptables -L -n
.Ed
.Pp
Rules can be dynamically added, deleted, inserted, replaced, and
flushed through the corresponding commands of the
.Sy iptables
utility, see its documentation for the details.
The current state of the configuration can be recorded by dumping it
to temporary file under a directory which is shared with the host,
that is
.Pa /var/tmp
in this case.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iptables-save > /var/tmp/iptables
.Ed
.Pp
The file exported this way could be then used as the main
configuration by moving it under the
.Pa %%LOCALBASE%%/etc/wifibox/appliance
directory on the host, as discussed above.
.Pp
The same set of commands apply for
.Sy ip6tables ,
where
.Sy iptables-save
has to be written as
.Sy ip6tables-save .
.Sh TROUBLESHOOTING NETWORK ISSUES
To verify the flow of network traffic, the
.Sy iptables
or the
.Sy ip6tables
(for IPv6) utility can be asked to list the rules in a more verbose
manner.
This will include the number of packets that matched each of the
rules, so their effect becomes observable.
For example, in case of
.Sy iptables :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iptables -L -nv
.Ed
.Pp
For finding the right configuration parameters for the rules of
network packet filtering, it is possible to additionally install the
.Sy tcpdump
utility.
It can be used to capture all the packets that are flowing through all
the networking interfaces and determine the proper IP addresses and
ports.
When invoked without any parameters, it will start dumping all the
traffic-related information to the standard output.
For all the features and options, please consult the documentation.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# tcpdump
.Ed
.Pp
Mind that this facility is not available by default, the guest image
has to be explicitly configured to include this as it is a security
risk.
For the same reason, its removal is recommended once the analysis is
concluded.
.Sh DEALING WITH UDP PACKETS
By design, UDP packets are not meant to passed between the
.Sy eth0
and
.Sy wlan0
interfaces which may cause certain applications to fail to work.
A possible way to address this shortcoming is to deploy the proper
handlers to the user space and configure
.Sy iptables
to use them.
This can be requested by the
.Sy RETURN
target, which can be inserted in the
.Sy PREROUTING
chain for the NAT rules.
For example, in case of
.Sy mDNSResponder ,
the packet filtering rules have to explicitly be configured to pass
every UDP packet on port 5353 to the application for further
processing.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
-A PREROUTING -p udp --dport 5353 -j RETURN
.Ed
.Pp
For other similar uses, the
.Sy forwarding
service can be set up and the ports that are forwarded that way could
be linked to the network packet filtering logic in the same manner.
.Sh WIRELESS DIAGNOSTICS
Details of wireless configuration can be learned through the use of
the
.Sy iw
tool, which is suitable for showing and manipulating wireless devices
and their configuration.
For example, it can list the device capabilities, such as band
information (2.4 GHz and 5 GHz), and 802.11n information.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iw list
.Ed
.Pp
Scanning can be initiated as follows.
There,
.Sy wlan0
is the name of the wireless networking device, which can be considered
constant.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iw dev wlan0 scan
.Ed
.Pp
Wireless events can be traced with the
.Cm event
command.
In the related example below, the
.Fl f
and
.Fl t
flags are added to show full frames for auth/assoc/deauth/disassoc as
well as the timestamps for each event.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iw event -t -f
.Ed
.Pp
To determine if there is an active connection to an Access Point and
further related information can be displayed by the
.Cm link
command.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iw dev wlan0 link
.Ed
.Pp
More details can be collected by the
.Cm station dump
command.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# iw dev wlan0 station dump
.Ed
.Sh BLOCKED WIRELESS DEVICES
Sometimes it happens that even if the driver has successfully detected
the wireless device, it is not yet ready to be used.
That is because the use of the device might be blocked either by
software or hardware means i.e., by a physical switch.
The image contains the
.Sy rfkill
tool as part of BusyBox to unblock the wireless device.
Use the
.Sy list
command to see if
.Sy rfkill
is usable and list the available interfaces.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rfkill list
.Ed
.Pp
If the interface is shown to be blocked, use the
.Sy unblock
command to unblock it.
This can be done either by function or index.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rfkill unblock wlan
.Ed
.Pp
Or:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# rfkill unblock 0
.Ed
.Pp
Note that \(lqhard\(rq block status cannot be changed this way, as it
is typically performed by the hardware switch or it is implemented by
the firmware itself.
For example, the computer might be configured to turn off the wireless
device when the wired networking interface card is active and the LAN
cable is inserted.
.Sh WPA SUPPLICANT / HOSTAPD LOGGING
The log events of the
.Sy wpa_supplicant
and
.Sy hostapd
applications are fed directly into
.Sy syslogd
that is running as part of the image's base system, offered by
.Sy busybox .
This means that all of those events will eventually show up under
.Pa /var/log/messages
on the guest and hence become visible on the
.Fx
host (as described earlier).
.Pp
By the default, the events might not be verbose or abundant enough to
understand the reasons for the experienced failure.
In those cases, when the
.Sy uds_passthru
is configured, the respective command line application, e.g.
.Sy wpa_cli
or
.Sy hostapd_cli
could be used to attach to the corresponding daemon from the
.Fx
host where the level of logging could be set by the
.Sy log_level
command in run time.
.Pp
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ wpa_cli
wpa_cli v2.11
Copyright (c) 2004-2024, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi> and contributors

This software may be distributed under the terms of the BSD license.
See README for more details.


Selected interface 'wlan0'

Interactive mode

> log_level DEBUG
OK
.Ed
.Sh SUPPORTED HARDWARE
There are a number of Linux drivers available as kernel modules.
Note that not all of them could be used immediately because there
might be additional, often proprietary firmware files have to be
placed under
.Pa /lib/firmware
for activation.
.Pp
A list of wireless cards supported by the drivers is as follows.
The kernel modules that depend on specific firmware files are marked
by name at the end of each entry, otherwise they should be working.
The availability of those auxiliary files is a function of how the
corresponding
.Fx
port is configured.
Some of them might be included for certain package flavors only or
disabled by default and has to be explicitly configured and built by
the user due to licensing restrictions.
Note that this list might not be accurate and included here for
information only.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -offset indent -compact
.It ADMTek/Infineon AMD8211A
.It ADMTek/Infineon AMD8211B
.It ADMTek/Infineon AMD8211C
.It Atmel at76c506 [atmel]
.It Broadcom BCM4301 [b43legacy]
.It Broadcom BCM4306/2 [b43legacy]
.It Broadcom BCM4306/3 [b43legacy]
.It Broadcom BCM4311 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM4312 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM4313 [brcm, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43131 [wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43142 [wl]
.It Broadcom BCM4318 [b43]
.It Broadcom BCM4321 [wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43217 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM4322 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43222 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43224 [b43, brcm, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43225 [b43, brcm, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43227 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43228 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM4331 [b43, wl]
.It Broadcom BCM4352 [wl]
.It Broadcom BCM4358 [brcm]
.It Broadcom BCM4360 [wl]
.It Broadcom BCM43602 [brcm]
.It Broadcom BCM4365 [brcm]
.It Broadcom BCM4366 [brcm]
.It Cisco Aironet 350 Series PCI-351
.It Cisco Aironet 350 Series PCI-352
.It Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 2100 [ipw2100]
.It Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 2200/2915 [ipw2200]
.It Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 3945ABG/BG [iwl3945]
.It Intel(R) Wireless WiFi 4965 [iwl4965]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 1000 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 1030 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 100 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 105 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 130 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 135 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 2200 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Wireless-N 2230 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Ultimate-N 5100 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Ultimate-N Wi-Fi Link 5300 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) WiMAX/Wi-Fi Link 5350 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Advanced-N + WiMAX 6150 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Advanced-N 6200 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Advanced-N 6205 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Advanced-N 6230 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Advanced-N 6235 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Advanced-N + WiMAX 6250 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Centrino(R) Ultimate-N 6300 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless 3160 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless 7260 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless 7265 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 3165 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 3168 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 8260 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 8265 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 9260 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 9461 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 9462 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wireless-AC 9560 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wi-Fi 6 AX200 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wi-Fi 6 AX201 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wi-Fi 6 AX210 [iwlwifi]
.It Intel(R) Wi-Fi 6 AX211 [iwlwifi]
.It Marvell 88W8363 [marvell]
.It Marvell 88W8366 [marvell]
.It Marvell 88W8387 [marvell]
.It Marvell 88W8764 [marvell]
.It Marvell 88W8766 [marvell]
.It Marvell 88W8897 [marvell]
.It MediaTek MT7603E [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7610E [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7612/MT7602/MT7662 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7615 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7622 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7628 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7630E [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7663 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7915 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7921 (AMD RZ608 Wi-Fi 6E) [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7925 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7990 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7991 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT7992 [mediatek]
.It MediaTek MT799A [mediatek]
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR2413
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR2414
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR2415
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR2417
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR2423/4
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR2425
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR2427
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR5210
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR5211
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR5212
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR5213
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR5214
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR5416
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR5418
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9102
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9103
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9160
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9220
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9223
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9227
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9280
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9281
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9285
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9287
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9331
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9340
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9380
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9382
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9462
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9485
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9550
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9565
.It Qualcomm Atheros AR9580
.It Qualcomm Atheros IPQ4018 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros IPQ8074 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros IPQ6018 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA2062 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA2066 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA6174 / QCA6174A [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA6390 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA6391 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA6698QA [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9337 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9880 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9882 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9886 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9888 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9890 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9892 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCA9984 [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCN62xx [ath10k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCN9074 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros QCN9274 [ath12k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros WCN6855 [ath11k]
.It Qualcomm Atheros WCN7850 [ath12k]
.It Quantenna QSR10G
.It Ralink RT2460 [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2560 [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2501/RT2561/RT2561S (RT61) [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2600/RT2661 (RT61) [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2760 [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2790 [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2800 [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2860 [rt61]
.It Ralink RT2890 [rt61]
.It Ralink RT3052 [rt61]
.It Realtek 8180 [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8185 [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8187SE [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8188EE [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8192EE [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8192C/8188C [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8192S/8191S [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8192DE [rtlwifi]
.It Realtek 8703B [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8723BE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8723D [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8723DE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8723E [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8812A [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8814A [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8814AE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8821A [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8821C [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8821CE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8822B [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8822BE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8822C [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8822CE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8821C [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8821CE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8821C [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8821CE [rtl8821ce]
.It Realtek 8822BE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8822C [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8822CE [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8851B [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8851BE [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8852A [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8852AE [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8852B [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8852BE [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8852BT [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8852BTE [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8852C [rtw88]
.It Realtek 8852CE [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8922A [rtw89]
.It Realtek 8922AE [rtw89]
.It Texas Instruments WL1271/3 [ti]
.It Texas Instruments WL1281/3 [ti]
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hostapd.conf 5 ,
.Xr wpa_supplicant.conf 5 ,
.Xr wifibox 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Gábor Páli Aq Mt pali.gabor@gmail.com
.Sh CAVEATS
Certain vendors may assign different PCI IDs for their rebranded
products even if they ship exactly the same chipset.
For example, AMD RZ608 is technically the same as MediaTek MT7921, but
its PCI ID had to be explictly added for the corresponding driver to
make it work.
Similar situations may occur any time, please let us know if this
happens.
